# Historia de Flash 

The Flash is a 2023 American superhero film based on the DC Comics character Barry Allen / The Flash. Directed by Andy Muschietti from a screenplay by Christina Hodson and a story by the writing team of John Francis Daley and Jonathan Goldstein alongside Joby Harold, it is the 13th film in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU) produced by DC Films. Ezra Miller stars as Barry Allen, who travels back in time to prevent his mother's death and becomes stranded in an alternate past. Sasha Calle also stars in her film debut, alongside Michael Shannon, Ron Livingston, Maribel Verdú, Kiersey Clemons, Antje Traue, and Michael Keaton.

Development on a film featuring the Flash began in the late 1980s and various iterations were planned through 2014, when it was redeveloped for the DCEU and Miller was cast. Multiple writers and directors were attached over the following years, with Seth Grahame-Smith, Rick Famuyiwa, Daley, and Goldstein all departing the project over creative differences with the studios. Muschietti and Hodson became involved by July 2019, and pre-production began in January 2020. Influenced by the 2011 comic book storyline Flashpoint, the film explores the multiverse and features other DC characters, such as Calle's Supergirl and multiple versions of Batman, including Keaton's portrayal from the films Batman (1989) and Batman Returns (1992), while others were digitally included. Filming lasted from April to October 2021 at Warner Bros. Studios Leavesden and on location throughout the United Kingdom. The film's ending was altered several times during post-production due to wider DC plans changing under different studio leaderships.
